For each functional safety requirement,
we need to discuss how the driver will be warned of the malfunction.
For the lane assistance item malfunctions,
we will display a warning on the driver dashboard.
If the steering wheel ECU receives
a vibrational torque request beyond the allowed maximum,
a warning light will turn on.
Here is an updated system diagram taking into account the warning lights.
Note that we have added a connection from
the power steering ECU to the driver display subsystem.
We also need to describe what the vehicle system will do after a malfunction occurs.
When a malfunction occurs,
the system needs to go to a state with a lower acceptable risk level.
This lower risk level is called a safe state.
We have already said that both the lane departure warning function and the lane
keeping the system function will turn off when a safety requirement is violated.
Turning a system off can generally be
considered a safe state with acceptable risk levels.
A warning and degradation concept will include how
the driver will be alerted when the system has reduced functionality,
or is turned off completely,
and how the vehicle will transition to and recover from the safe state.
The car manual should include information from the warning a degradation concept as well.
For the lane keeping assistance function,
the manual would probably include a warning that
the functionality is not meant for autonomous driving,
and the driver maintains responsibility for the safe operation of.